

# Quran Search App

The Quran Search App is a Python application with a graphical interface that allows users to search for specific words in the Quran. It includes an Arabic keyboard generated by Tkinter for users who are not accustomed to the Arabic keyboard layout. 

## Features

- Launches with a graphical interface.
- Displays an Arabic keyboard for easier input.
- Searches for words in the Quran.
- Displays the total number of occurrences of the searched word in the entire Quran.
- Shows all verses where the word appears, along with the preceding and following verses to provide context.
- Generates the search results in an HTML file automatically.

The application uses the Quran text stored in the files "quran-simple-plain.txt" and "surah_names.txt," which must be kept in the application's directory.



## Prerequisites

- Python 3 installed on your machine.
- Basic knowledge of using the command line.
- Install the required Python package using pip:

```
pip install pyarabic.araby
```

This package is necessary for Arabic text processing within the application.



## Installation

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

```
git clone https://github.com/saladinlorenz/quran-serach-app.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

```
cd quran-search-app
```

3. Install the required dependencies:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

1. Run the application by executing the following command:

```
python quran_search_app.py
```

2. Enter the word you want to search for in the provided text box.
3. Press the "Search" button to start the search process.
4. The search results will be displayed in an HTML file, which will open automatically in your default web browser.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you find any bugs or have suggestions for improvement, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

